>> Jerome Hardaway: So,
networking strategy and in current market.
What I have seen, particularly
the junior side is people are just,
I had it happen to me twice
today during this workshop.
They are saying hello, they're pitching
themselves, hire me or give me a referral.
And that's all in the same conversation.
I don't know who you are,
I have no idea how we met,
I don't know how you got this email,
I have no information about you other than
the information you've given me and
what you told me to do.
That is not networking.
That is [LAUGH] stalking and pitching.
[LAUGH] That is what you do not wanna
do because now you've just ended up
on my block list, and
then I'm gonna tell this with the world
about you on Frontend Masters.
You don't wanna do that, right?
So how you do this, right?
First we have to acknowledge
the facts about the focus of network.
You have to shift your focus.
Networking is not an end game,
it's a long game.
It's about consistently showcasing and
sharing your value mutually
with your community and the people
that you are working with, right?
Junior Developers, for
those on the ones and twos.
Your job as a junior developer
Is to showcase hard skill value.
So your focus when you're trying to
network is you should be getting
a feedback loop centered on your
projects or products, right?
That works for juniors, that works for
mids, some of the seniors, everyone.
I have one of my favorite people all
he's director of engineering at Hilton.
He built a Chrome plugin for dyslexia.
And while he was laid off and
he ended up getting more job
hires off of that than
just than anything else.
And you think about this is
a pretty senior person, but
he solved a problem that was
important to people, all right?
So that's what you want.
You wanna build a product, build
a project, get feedback, even if it's in
the discussions and things, and
then you wanna iterate on that.
Now, when troops, the best story I
have for that is James Regan, who,
he would come to me, ask for my advice
in LinkedIn, I'd give him my advice and
then he would do it, and
then he'd be like, ask for more advice.
And I was like, okay, this person
has built a rapport of trust of,
hey, you are actually going to
do the thing I tell you to do,
which makes me not feel like I'm
wasting my time with you, right?
So yes, I will mentor you even though my
plate is full even though I have four
kids, three dogs and a wife, even though I
have a job and I have a bunch of troops.
Yes, I will also talk and mentor you
because you're showcasing me that you
value my time and my expertise and you're
gonna execute, I'm one of those people.
I love people that execute, right?
I'm probably not the only person that
likes a person that if I tell them to do
something, they go and do it.
And I'm like, all right,
what else you got, right?
People love that.
Wow, you did what I said.
And you actually did what I said instead
of just wasted 20 minutes of my life?
That's awesome.
Of course, I'm gonna have more time with
you, especially in this modern age, you'll
be amazed how many people wanna pick your
brain, but they don't wanna do the thing
that they wanna do because, networking,
getting this job in tech it's work, right?
It looks a lot like work and
not just being able to just smooth
your way into roles, right?
So, this is what you
should do as a junior.
You should be building a feedback loop
based on your projects, build and
showcase those projects, receive feedback,
iterate based on the feedback,
keep people updated, even if it's just
live on LinkedIn, so people can see it.
And then always,
you can make it even more personal.
If I'm on LinkedIn, I get feedback
from somebody like this person.
I was like, that person,
gave me feedback on how to improve this.
And he gave me these changes and
then I implemented them.
I wanna thank you for
spending your time and do this, right?
People love gratitude, right?
Everybody loves being thanked.
I have yet to meet one person that's like,
no, don't thank me, right?
Veterans, they say that, but
we all actually do like being thanked for
our service.
It's just the right thing to say is
don't thank me for my service I work for
a living, I volunteer.
But we're all like, yes, somebody
recognize that crap was crazy, right?
So [LAUGH] all right, don't let us lie
to you all on the news, but keep it up.